refactor(csp): change CSP behaviour (#13923)
withastro/astro: .changeset/cold-beans-grow.md

---
'astro': patch
---

> Adds a new option to the CSP called `strategy`. When `strategy` is set to `auto`, the hashes of dynamic pages will be served using the `Response` headers.

Reviewer: Just a quick suggestion for a beefier changeset, since even though it's a patch because it's experimental, it's a brand new thing to let people know about, just like a minor!

```suggestion
Adds a new option `strategy` to the experimental Content Security Policy (CSP) to configure how hashes for on-demand rendered pages are served: `'auto'` (using `Response` headers) or `'meta'` (using a `<meta>` element).

The default value for `strategy` is `'meta'` and matches the current existing behavior. No changes to your project code are required to continue using experimental CSP with `<meta>` elements.

Configuring `strategy: 'auto'` option allows you to add CSP content that is not supported in a `<meta>` element (e.g. `Content-Security-Policy-Report-Only` header, `report-uri`, `frame-ancestors`, and sandbox directives) to on-demand rendered pages:
```
And then I would include a code example, and a link to the docs for more info.

ASIDE: Just a note re: the name "auto" -- it's not obvious where the name "auto" here comes from (maybe because there's more to come in this feature, and eventually "auto" would make sense? but normally we think of auto as "vs manual" but instead it's "auto vs a meta element" which at this point feels like a strange comparison?)

And I notice some of the code uses `'header'` and `'meta'` for describing the destination. There may be a good reason not to make these option values `'header'` and `'meta'` so that they match what they actually relate to, but just seeing this for the first time, that feels like it would be an easy user story to tell.

---
'astro': patch
---

> Changes to the behavior of the CSP solution. Now Astro CSP hashes are served differntely:
> - Via the `<meta>` element for static pages
> - Via the `Response` header `content-security-policy` for dynamic pages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changes the behavior of experimental Content Security Policy (CSP) to now serve hashes differently based whether or not a page is prerendered: 

- Via the `<meta>` element for static pages.
- Via the `Response` header `content-security-policy` for on-demand rendered pages.

This new strategy allows you to add CSP content that is not supported in a `<meta>` element (e.g. `report-uri`, `frame-ancestors`, and sandbox directives) to on-demand rendered pages.

No change to your project code is required as this is an implementation detail. However, this will result in a different HTML output for pages that are rendered on demand. Please check your production site to verify that CSP is working as intended.

To keep up to date with this developing feature, or to leave feedback, visit the [CSP Roadmap proposal](https://github.com/withastro/roadmap/blob/feat/rfc-csp/proposals/0055-csp.md).
```
Maybe something of this structure? (Make it accurate! 😂 )

Author: I didn't put the notice because it doesn't change any underlying API. But we can put the notice for the behaviour
